On that note,
should we have the TypeScript talk?
Let's have the TypeScript talk.
I'm trying to think.
Let's do with add banner.
Anyone wanna know how
to support TypeScript?
Watch, And
I gotta make this string.
It's angry about this.
We'll talk about how to
deal with that in a second.
But generally speaking,
as, Cool, all right, and so
other than this being slightly angry about
it doesn't know the type of the CSS file,
there's some libraries that will just
generate the types if you needed to.
You could also just declare
what the types are as well.
But other than changing
the file extension,
that's it, we now support TypeScript.
I don't think I'm actually
calling that at this point.
But TypeScript is supported just
by changing the file extension.
No other configuration needed whatsoever,
it's all kinda built in.
If you have a TS config file in there,
it will respect that,
everything is good to go
from the very beginning.
There's nothing that you need to do,
TypeScript is just natively supported.
We're not gonna be writing
a lot of TypeScript today.
But occasionally, we do an addBanner,
how to configure something for
TypeScript when we build a library,
how to generate the types of it is based
on TypeScript, so on and so forth.
But generally speaking, everything I've
said so far about all these JavaScript
files also applies as well for
a given TypeScript file as well, right?
All I have to do is add
the type annotations.
The important thing to note, though,
is Vite is not gonna do your
type checking for you, right?
It's gonna process those TypeScript files.
It could be littered with a bunch of,
depending on what your TypeScript settings
are, things that TypeScript's angry about,
it will still compile.
The main reason for
this is that that takes time, right?
And a lot of the kind of fundamental idea
here is that the faster everything is,
the faster your feedback loop is.
So you hit Save, you see on page.
The quicker that time is, right,
the faster you can see that you
messed something up, and the faster you
can make the decision to get either your
test passing or that div vertically
centered, so on and so forth, right?
And so it's not doing that type checking,
it's simply compiling your JavaScript and
rendering it,
which is all it promised to do.
Generally speaking, if you use VS Code or
something along those lines,
VS Code is gonna yell at you with red
squigglies and handle that for you and
your editor in a separate process.
So you're still building fast,
you're still getting the type checking and
development.
And then the only thing, if you're using
TypeScript, that I would say that you
should do, you don't have to do it, is
just to run the TypeScript compiler first
before you build, and that will then blow
up if your TypeScript won't compile.
Cuz Vite will just take your word for
it and go for it, right?
Cuz it's aiming to be fast and
assuming that either your editor or
the TypeScript compiler can go ahead and
do the type checking for you separately.
And this is happening in the process.
Everything is fast cuz you're not
compiling it all, doing the type check,
and then rendering the page.
You're rendering the page, and then you
can also either through your editor or
through the build process,
do the type- hecking.
But out of the box, all you gotta
do is change that file extensions,
no pulling another loader.
There was a time in my life where
a certain build tool that might start
with web and end with pack had three
different TS loaders of various levels,
support for various things, and I don't
wanna live like that anymore, right?
And I don't wanna talk about the week of
my life that I lost in, I think, 2018,
2019 to that cuz I don't have
to live like that anymore.
Because I just changed this and
everything works,
and whatever settings are in your TS
config file are totally respected.
When we get to templates and
stuff like that, too,
you'll see that Vite provides a bunch of
templates that'll have most of this stuff
wired up for you as well, and you can
kinda see a lot of stuff in there, too